Now we added our first mutation and a mutation of course also means that we store data in the database.
When something like this happens, we want to ensure that the data we store is valid and previously in
the rest API and also in the normal node express application where we render views, we use express validator
for that and we added that as a middleware on our routes. With graphql, this is not an option because
we only have one route,
this one, this is the only endpoint we have and we certainly don't want to validate all requests in exactly
the same way.
So to change that and to adjust it to our needs, we want to move validation into our resolvers.
There we have our endpoints and there is the place where we can now validate our incoming request data.
To do validation there, I'll install a new package with npm install and then --save
and that is called validator and that by the way is the package which express validator used behind the
scenes, we can use that directly in our code now. So in my resolvers file,
I will import that validator object provided by the validator package and now in create user, we can add
some validation logic with simple if statements.
For example I can check if I don't have a valid email,
so not validator
and then isEmail and you got the same rules as with express validator because as I mentioned, it builds
up on this validator package and then I check if user input email is not an email address
and if that is the case, then I want to store that error. So I'll create my own errors array here
and that's just one way of handling this,
you could find a different pattern of course
and I will push a new error onto this array
and for me here and that again is only my implementation, an error will be an object where I have a
message, for example e-mail is invalid.
Now let's say we don't just want to validate the e-mail,
we also want to check whether our password is there and if it's too short.
So if validator is empty
user input password, then we have a problem because then we got no values for the password or we also
have a problem if it's not empty
but if the length is not long enough.
So if the length for the password is not fitting the criteria we specify in the second argument to isLength
which is an object where we can set a min and max key and I'll set min to 5.
So if we enter a password that is empty or not long enough,
so if it is not long enough, we need to add an exclamation mark here,
then we make it into this if statement here
and then we also have a problem and there
I also want to push an error onto my errors array and there I'll add a message of password too short.
Now this is just one way of implementing this,
now after having all these if checks, I can check if my errors array has a length that is greater than zero
which means I do have errors and if I do, I'll create my own new error object where I throw invalid
input or where I report invalid input
and now I throw that error.
Now let's give that a try.
If I now try to add an email address which is not an e-mail address and I hit play here, I indeed see
my invalid input message and that is how we can add validation.
What if we now want to pass more data with our error message here?